src/README.md, before:

README
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

X-Mem: Extensible Memory Benchmarking Tool v1.05.02
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The flexible open-source research tool for characterizing memory hierarchy throughput, latency, and power. 

Originally authored by Mark Gottscho (Email: <mgottscho@ucla.edu>) as a Summer 2014 intern at Microsoft Research, Redmond, WA.

This project is under active development. Stay tuned for more updates.

PROJECT REVISION DATE: January 14, 2015.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
LICENSE
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The MIT License (MIT)

Copyright (c) 2014 Microsoft

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
FEATURES
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This tool is provided as open source with the hope of being useful to the broader research and development community. Here are some of X-Mem's features.

Flexibility: Easy reconfiguration for different sets of tests
	- Cache levels
	- NUMA
	- Multi-threading
	- Forward and reverse strides
	- Sequential and random access
	- Read and write
	- 32, 64, 128, 256-bit width memory instructions

Extensibility: C++ object-oriented principles
	- Supports rapid addition of new benchmark kernel routines by others
	- Example: stream triad algorithm, impact of false sharing, etc. are possible with minor additions

Cross-platform: Currently implemented for Windows on x86-64 CPUs with AVX extensions
	- Designed to allow straightforward porting to other operating systems and ISAs
	- Planning to implement GNU/Linux port

Memory throughput:
	- Accurate measurement of sustained memory throughput to all levels of cache
	- Burst mode benchmark kernels possible (extensible!)

Memory latency: 
	- Accurate measurement of round-trip unloaded memory latency to all levels of cache
	- Loaded latency measurements planned

Memory power:
	- Currently collecting DRAM power via custom driver exposed in Windows performance counter API
	- Supports custom power instrumentation without much modification
	- Thorough Documentation: extensive Doxygen source comments, HTML, PDF docs

For feature requests, please refer to the contact information at the end of this README.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
RUNTIME PREREQUISITES
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

There are a few runtime prerequisites in order for the software to run correctly.

HARDWARE:

- Intel x86-64 CPU. RECOMMENDED: Recent CPU with SSE2 and AVX extended instruction sets for improved throughput benchmarking capabilities.

WINDOWS:

- Microsoft Windows 64-bit, 8.0 or later, Server 2012 or later.
- Microsoft Visual C++ 2013 Redistributables (64-bit)

LINUX:

- TBD

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
INSTALLATION
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The only file that is needed to run is xmem.exe. It has no other dependencies aside from the system prerequisites listed above.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
USAGE
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

NOTE: On Windows, make sure you run X-Mem with Administrator privileges. This is needed in order to:
	- Allocate "large pages" for improved performance as well as query 
	- Read performance counter data from the OS for reporting power (when applicable)
	- Elevate thread priority and pin threads to CPUs for improved performance and benchmarking consistency

xmem [options]

Options:

    -h, --help                Print usage and exit.

    -l, --latency             Measure memory latency

    -t, --throughput          Measure memory throughput

    -w, --working_set_size    Working set size in KB. This must be a multiple of
                              4KB.

    -n, --iterations          Iterations per benchmark test

    -i, --base_test_index     Numerical index of the first benchmark, for
                              tracking unique test IDs.

    -f, --output_file         Output filename to use. If not specified, no
                              output file generated.

Examples:

    xmem --help

    xmem -h

    xmem -t

    xmem -t --latency -n10 -w524288 -f results.csv -i 101

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
BUILDING FROM SOURCE
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Before building the source, enable and disable the relevant compile-time options in src/include/common.h, under the section "User-configurable compilation configuration". Please read the comments by each #define statement to understand the context of each option.

After you have set the desired compile-time options, build the source. On Windows, running build-win.bat should suffice. On GNU/Linux, run build-linux.sh.

If you customize your build, make sure you use the "Release" mode for your OS. Do not include debug capabilities as it can dramatically affect performance of the benchmarks, leading to pessimistic results.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
BUILD PREREQUISITES
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

There are a few software build prerequisites, depending on your platform.

WINDOWS:

- Any version of Visual Studio 2013 64-bit (also known as version 12.0).
- Python 2.7. You can obtain it at <http://www.python.org>.
- SCons build system. You can obtain it at <http://www.scons.org>. Build tested with SCons 2.3.4.

LINUX:

- gcc with support for the C++11 standard. Tested with gcc version 4.8.2 on Ubuntu 14.04 LTS for x86-64.
- Python 2.7. You can obtain it at <http://www.python.org>. On Ubuntu systems, you can install using "sudo apt-get install python2.7". You may need some other Python 2.7 packages as well.
- SCons build system. You can obtain it at <http://www.scons.org>. On Ubuntu systems, you can install using "sudo apt-get install scons". Build tested with SCons 2.3.4.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOCUMENTATION BUILD PREREQUISITES
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following tools are only needed for automatically regenerating source code documentation with HTML and PDF.

WINDOWS:

- doxygen tool. You can obtain it at <http://www.stack.nl/~dimitri/doxygen>.
- LaTeX distribution. You can get a Windows distribution at <http://www.miktex.org>.
- make for Windows. You can obtain it at <http://gnuwin32.sourceforge.net/packages/make.htm>. You will have to manually add it to your Windows path.

LINUX:

- doxygen tool. You can obtain it at <http://www.stack.nl/~dimitri/doxygen>. On Ubuntu systems, you can install with "sudo apt-get install doxygen".
- LaTeX distribution. On Ubuntu systems, LaTeX distributed with doxygen should actually be sufficient. You can install with "sudo apt-get install doxygen-latex".
- make. This should be included on any GNU/Linux system.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SOURCE CODE DOCUMENTATION
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The tool comes with built-in Doxygen comments in the source code, which can be used to generate both HTML and LaTeX --> PDF documentation. Documentation is maintained under the doc/ subdirectory. To build documentation after modifying the source, run build-docs-win.bat on Windows, or build-docs-linux.sh on GNU/Linux systems. Note that Doxygen and a LaTeX distribution must be installed on the system.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
VERSION CONTROL
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This project is under version control using git. Its master repository is hosted at <https://github.com/Microsoft/X-Mem.git>.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
CONTACT, FEEDBACK, AND BUG REPORTS
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

For questions, comments, criticism, bug reports, and other feedback for this software, please contact Mark Gottscho via email at <mgottscho@ucla.edu> or via web at <http://www.seas.ucla.edu/~gottscho>.

For inquiries about this work while conducted at Microsoft, please contact Dr. Mohammed Shoaib at <mohammed.shoaib@microsoft.com> or Dr. Sriram Govindan at <srgovin@microsoft.com>.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ACKNOWLEDGMENT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Mark Gottscho would like to thank Dr. Mohammed Shoaib of Microsoft Research and Dr. Sriram Govindan of Microsoft for their mentorship in the creation of this software. Further thanks to Dr. Bikash Sharma, Mark Santaniello, Mike Andrewartha, and Laura Caulfield of Microsoft for their contributions, feedback, and assistance. Finally, thank you to Dr. Jie Liu of Microsoft Research, Dr. Badriddine Khessib and Dr. Kushagra Vaid of Microsoft, and Prof. Puneet Gupta of UCLA for giving me the opportunity to create this work.

Commit message:

Implemented large/huge pages for GNU/Linux build. However, it appears that libhugetlbfs and hugetlbfs in general is not NUMA-aware...so currently the benchmark memory allocations with USE_LARGE_PAGES on Linux are not guaranteed to use NUMA correctly. This is not an issue on single-node systems, however. Also fixed a bug with converting CPU numbers in a NUMA node using libnuma that was causing segmentation faults.

src/README.md, after:

README
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

X-Mem: Extensible Memory Benchmarking Tool v1.05.03
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The flexible open-source research tool for characterizing memory hierarchy throughput, latency, and power. 

Originally authored by Mark Gottscho (Email: <mgottscho@ucla.edu>) as a Summer 2014 intern at Microsoft Research, Redmond, WA.

This project is under active development. Stay tuned for more updates.

PROJECT REVISION DATE: January 23, 2015.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
LICENSE
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The MIT License (MIT)

Copyright (c) 2014 Microsoft

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
FEATURES
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This tool is provided as open source with the hope of being useful to the broader research and development community. Here are some of X-Mem's features.

Flexibility: Easy reconfiguration for different sets of tests
	- Cache levels
	- NUMA
	- Multi-threading
	- Forward and reverse strides
	- Sequential and random access
	- Read and write
	- 32, 64, 128, 256-bit width memory instructions

Extensibility: C++ object-oriented principles
	- Supports rapid addition of new benchmark kernel routines by others
	- Example: stream triad algorithm, impact of false sharing, etc. are possible with minor additions

Cross-platform: Currently implemented for Windows on x86-64 CPUs with AVX extensions
	- Designed to allow straightforward porting to other operating systems and ISAs
	- Planning to implement GNU/Linux port

Memory throughput:
	- Accurate measurement of sustained memory throughput to all levels of cache
	- Burst mode benchmark kernels possible (extensible!)

Memory latency: 
	- Accurate measurement of round-trip unloaded memory latency to all levels of cache
	- Loaded latency measurements planned

Memory power:
	- Currently collecting DRAM power via custom driver exposed in Windows performance counter API
	- Supports custom power instrumentation without much modification
	- Thorough Documentation: extensive Doxygen source comments, HTML, PDF docs

For feature requests, please refer to the contact information at the end of this README.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
RUNTIME PREREQUISITES
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

There are a few runtime prerequisites in order for the software to run correctly.

HARDWARE:

- Intel x86-64 CPU. RECOMMENDED: Recent CPU with SSE2 and AVX extended instruction sets for improved throughput benchmarking capabilities.

WINDOWS:

- Microsoft Windows 64-bit, 8.0 or later, Server 2012 or later.
- Microsoft Visual C++ 2013 Redistributables (64-bit)

GNU/LINUX:

- GNU utilities with support for C++11. Tested with gcc 4.8.2 on Ubuntu 14.04 LTS.
- If the binary is built with the option USE_LARGE_PAGES, you will need libhugetlbfs. You can obtain it at <http://libhugetlbfs.sourceforge.net>. On Ubuntu systems, you can install using "sudo apt-get install libhugetlbfs0". Note that you may need to manually ensure that large pages are available from the OS. This can be done by running "hugeadm --pool-list". It is recommended to set minimum pool to 1GB (in order to measure DRAM effectively). If needed, this can be done by running "hugeadm --pool-pages-min 2MB:512".

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
INSTALLATION
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The only file that is needed to run is xmem.exe. It has no other dependencies aside from the system prerequisites listed above.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
USAGE
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

NOTE: On Windows, make sure you run X-Mem with Administrator privileges. This is needed in order to:
	- Allocate "large pages" for improved performance as well as query 
	- Read performance counter data from the OS for reporting power (when applicable)
	- Elevate thread priority and pin threads to CPUs for improved performance and benchmarking consistency

xmem [options]

Options:

    -h, --help                Print usage and exit.

    -l, --latency             Measure memory latency

    -t, --throughput          Measure memory throughput

    -w, --working_set_size    Working set size in KB. This must be a multiple of
                              4KB.

    -n, --iterations          Iterations per benchmark test

    -i, --base_test_index     Numerical index of the first benchmark, for
                              tracking unique test IDs.

    -f, --output_file         Output filename to use. If not specified, no
                              output file generated.

Examples:

    xmem --help

    xmem -h

    xmem -t

    xmem -t --latency -n10 -w524288 -f results.csv -i 101

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
BUILDING FROM SOURCE
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Before building the source, enable and disable the relevant compile-time options in src/include/common.h, under the section "User-configurable compilation configuration". Please read the comments by each #define statement to understand the context of each option.

After you have set the desired compile-time options, build the source. On Windows, running build-win.bat should suffice. On GNU/Linux, run build-linux.sh.

If you customize your build, make sure you use the "Release" mode for your OS. Do not include debug capabilities as it can dramatically affect performance of the benchmarks, leading to pessimistic results.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
BUILD PREREQUISITES
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

There are a few software build prerequisites, depending on your platform.

WINDOWS:

- Any version of Visual Studio 2013 64-bit (also known as version 12.0).
- Python 2.7. You can obtain it at <http://www.python.org>.
- SCons build system. You can obtain it at <http://www.scons.org>. Build tested with SCons 2.3.4.

GNU/LINUX:

- gcc with support for the C++11 standard. Tested with gcc version 4.8.2 on Ubuntu 14.04 LTS for x86-64.
- Python 2.7. You can obtain it at <http://www.python.org>. On Ubuntu systems, you can install using "sudo apt-get install python2.7". You may need some other Python 2.7 packages as well.
- SCons build system. You can obtain it at <http://www.scons.org>. On Ubuntu systems, you can install using "sudo apt-get install scons". Build tested with SCons 2.3.4.
- If you want large page (huge page) support on GNU/Linux, you need kernel support. This can be verified on your installation by running "grep hugetlbfs /proc/filesystems". If you do not have huge page support in your kernel, you can build a kernel with the appropriate options switched on: "CONFIG_HUGETLB_PAGE" and "CONFIG_HUGETLBFS".
- libhugetlbfs. This is used for allocating "huge pages". You can obtain it at <http://libhugetlbfs.sourceforge.net>. On Ubuntu systems, you can install using "sudo apt-get install libhugetlbfs-dev".

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOCUMENTATION BUILD PREREQUISITES
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following tools are only needed for automatically regenerating source code documentation with HTML and PDF.

WINDOWS:

- doxygen tool. You can obtain it at <http://www.stack.nl/~dimitri/doxygen>.
- LaTeX distribution. You can get a Windows distribution at <http://www.miktex.org>.
- make for Windows. You can obtain it at <http://gnuwin32.sourceforge.net/packages/make.htm>. You will have to manually add it to your Windows path.

GNU/LINUX:

- doxygen tool. You can obtain it at <http://www.stack.nl/~dimitri/doxygen>. On Ubuntu systems, you can install with "sudo apt-get install doxygen".
- LaTeX distribution. On Ubuntu systems, LaTeX distributed with doxygen should actually be sufficient. You can install with "sudo apt-get install doxygen-latex".
- make. This should be included on any GNU/Linux system.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SOURCE CODE DOCUMENTATION
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The tool comes with built-in Doxygen comments in the source code, which can be used to generate both HTML and LaTeX --> PDF documentation. Documentation is maintained under the doc/ subdirectory. To build documentation after modifying the source, run build-docs-win.bat on Windows, or build-docs-linux.sh on GNU/Linux systems. Note that Doxygen and a LaTeX distribution must be installed on the system.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
VERSION CONTROL
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This project is under version control using git. Its master repository is hosted at <https://github.com/Microsoft/X-Mem.git>.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
CONTACT, FEEDBACK, AND BUG REPORTS
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

For questions, comments, criticism, bug reports, and other feedback for this software, please contact Mark Gottscho via email at <mgottscho@ucla.edu> or via web at <http://www.seas.ucla.edu/~gottscho>.

For inquiries about this work while conducted at Microsoft, please contact Dr. Mohammed Shoaib at <mohammed.shoaib@microsoft.com> or Dr. Sriram Govindan at <srgovin@microsoft.com>.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ACKNOWLEDGMENT
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Mark Gottscho would like to thank Dr. Mohammed Shoaib of Microsoft Research and Dr. Sriram Govindan of Microsoft for their mentorship in the creation of this software. Further thanks to Dr. Bikash Sharma, Mark Santaniello, Mike Andrewartha, and Laura Caulfield of Microsoft for their contributions, feedback, and assistance. Finally, thank you to Dr. Jie Liu of Microsoft Research, Dr. Badriddine Khessib and Dr. Kushagra Vaid of Microsoft, and Prof. Puneet Gupta of UCLA for giving me the opportunity to create this work.
